In this video we'll learn what variables are from a conceptual perspective.
This will allow you to better understand how to use variables in your programs.
I'm assuming in this course that everyone is familiar with the basic architecture of a typical computer
system that is memory a CPQ and a bus that allows the movement of data between the CPQ in memory random
access memory or RAM is a contiguous block of storage used by the computer to store information.
This information can include computer instructions as well as data.
RAM can be thought of as having memory cells where each cell has an associated location.
If we had to program using the specific memory locations it wouldn't be a lot of fun and we'd likely
have a lot of programmer errors.
Imagine saying something like move 21:2 memory location 1002 in many very low level languages.
This is sometimes what we do.
However most programming languages allow you to associate a name with a memory location.
Let's see the same example using a variable.
In this example you can see that the memory location 1002 has been associated with the name age in computing
This is called the binding and we can move 21 to age.
This allows us not to have to worry about what exact memory location age is associated with.
If we run the program again age will likely be associated with a different memory address and that's
ok since we never knew about it in the first place.
Our code will still work.
Also thinking of names that makes sense to us makes writing and reading programs much easier.
That's the basic idea behind names and variables.
Of course since age is a variable.
That means that its contents can vary.
So if we turn 22 years old we can change the value of age from 21 to 22.
So to recap a variable is an abstraction for a memory location.
We use abstractions all the time in programming to make it easier for us to deal with complexity variables
allow us to use a meaningful name to represent a value.
It's important to understand that variables have two main properties first or type.
The compiler needs to know what types of values are legal to store in age in the first code snippet
on the left which tell the compiler to store Twenty-One in age but we never told the compiler what is
valid to store an age.
This will produce a compiler error telling us that age has been declared in the code snippet on the
right.
We first declare age to be an integer.
Now the compiler knows that only integers are allowed to be stored in h.
This is called static typing because the compiler is enforcing these rules.
When the program is compiled rather than when the program is executing.
So remember variables must be declared before you use them in C++ their value or contents may change
as the program executes the next video will learn how to declare and initialize variables so they're
ready to use in our programs.
Let's go there next.